10 Steps to Interview Success
Knock their socks off by knowing as much as you can about the job, the organization, the competition, the location, and the industry.

Your interview preparation includes researching the organization and, if possible and without "stalking" them, researching the people, too.
The Internet provides a wealth of information for job seekers. These are 10 (or more) places where you can start your research.

If you have time, keep looking. The more you know, the better off you will be. Not only will you be in knock-their-socks-off mode for the interview, your research could help you determine that the employer might not be a good place for you to work.

Throughout this preparation process, keep notes on questions that are raised. At the end of your research, you should have a good idea of what to say when they ask, "Do you have any questions for us?"

  1. Very carefully analyze the job description.  
It is too easy to skip this step and an often deadly mistake if you do.

Ask them for a copy of the job description, if you don't already have it. Then read it word-by-word. Pay careful attention to:

How they describe themselves - if they describe themselves.
The "requirements" of the job - experience, skills, education needed to do the job.
The "duties" of the job - what the person doing the job will be responsible for.
Any "nice-to-have" needs that aren't specified as required for this job, but are skills or knowledge that will gain you bonus points.
Build Your Interview Checklist: Make a list of how you meet their requirements, have proven ability to accomplish the duties, and are an "ideal" candidate for this job.

Don't assume that the job requirements and duties are necessarily in order of importance -- they should be, but are not always in the order that the interviewer would prefer. So, focus on your strengths.

  2. Prepare examples of your accomplishments.  
Saying you are very skilled at something is not as effective as sharing an accomplishment that proves your skill level. An excellent way to share your accomplishment is by describing situations where you successfully used that skill. Think of this as "success story telling."


Think of the times when you have successfully navigated through a difficult or challenging situation. If possible, focus on work-related situations or, at least, when you have achieved something related to what is required for this job. For example, when you:
Solved a problem, major or minor.
Created a new process.
Lead a team (as the team leader or not).
Managed a situation (as the manager or not).
Did something else innovative or original.
Preferably, these accomplishments helped your employer increase profitability, reduce expenses, improved customer or employee satisfaction, or provided some other major benefit to your employer at the time. Then, build a STAR description of each situation:

S -- the Situation -- the circumstances and context.
T -- the Task -- the problem or the objective you were trying to achieve.
A -- the Action -- what you did to accomplish the Task successfully.
R -- the Result -- the successful resolution of the situation.

For examples of STAR stories, read Be a STAR in Your Next Job Interview. The good news is that once you have prepared your STARs, you can use them to answer many different questions for other employers, too.

  3. Examine the organization's website.  
If this employer has no website, move on.
Interview
Interview
Interview
Interview

The employer's website presents "the party line" about the organization -- what they tell the world, and potential customers/clients, about themselves. Study the home page, but don't stop there.

Read the "About Us" and "Contact Us" sections. Then, look around at the other pages.

Know the industry or purpose of the organization. Be sure that is what you expect and want to be involved in.
Become familiar with the products or services. Know the brand names, if any, or at least the purpose or function.
Check for press releases or the latest news about the organization.
Interview	Interview	Interview
Look for names of the senior officers or founders and other highly visible employees. Are any of them familiar to you or, perhaps, known to you?
Where are they located?
Do they have their jobs posted?
Does the information on the website raise any questions or concerns for you? Do you see any opportunities?

Read How to Leverage the Information on Employer Websites for more details on digging out information from the employer's website, LinkedIn and more.

  4. Put Google, DuckDuckGo, Bing, and YouTube to work gathering important information about the organization.  
This is where you see how well "the party line" on the website relates to what the rest of the world thinks. Reality about an employer could be quite different than what the website tells you, depending on the quality of the website and/or the quality of the organization.
If you have product or service names, use a search engine (or two) to see what is being written, said, and videoed about the products or services. Dig in past the first couple of pages of results.

Look for product or service reviews.
Look for happy and unhappy customers and the reasons for both. Look for the names of competing organizations and competing products or services. Be very careful in your sharing of what you have found. The smartest thing may be to use the information as a basis for asking questions (without reference to your research) and observing what is happening when you are there. Also, use these reviews to direct further research.

To find those reviews, do a search on "[company name] review" and "[product or service name] review" -- for your search, keep the quotation marks but replace what is in the brackets with the term specified.

Collect information about the organization and their competitors:
(The competitors may also be good places for you to work.)

Have they made videos about how to use their products or services available? Check them out to see what you learn about them. Do you see where you can make a contribution?
Have some of the executives been taped giving talks at conferences? Watch a video or two, and know the conference dates and names. Again, does this research raise any questions or show you any opportunities? What are their reputations? Experience and education?
These searches will enable you to find out what the rest of the world says about them and how well they do what they do. As usual with online reviews, understand that angry people write reviews more often than happy ones, so you will most likely be seeing the most negative opinions, not usually a balanced (or, sometimes, even truthful) representation of how well they operate.

However, these searches will enable you to potentially see where they need help that you may be the perfect person to provide. Or, they may help you avoid a bad situation.

For more searches, check out Interview Preparation with Smart Google Research and 50+ Google Searches to Avoid Bad Employers and Pending Layoffs.

Read their annual reports, if available.